bundle-config(1) -- Set bundler configuration options
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`bundle config` [<name> [<value>]]

## DESCRIPTION

This command allows you to interact with bundler's configuration system.
Bundler retrieves its configuration from the local application (`app/.bundle/config`),
environment variables, and the user's home directory (`~/.bundle/config`),
in that order of priority.

Executing `bundle config` with no parameters will print a list of all
bundler configuration for the current bundle, and where that configuration
was set.

Executing `bundle config <name>` will print the value of that configuration
setting, and where it was set.

Executing `bundle config <name> <value>` will set that configuration to the
value specified for all bundles executed as the current user. The configuration
will be stored in `~/.bundle/config`. If <name> already is set, <name> will be
overridden and user will be warned.

Executing `bundle config --global <name> <value>` works the same as above.

Executing `bundle config --local <name> <value>` will set that configuration to
the local application. The configuration will be stored in `app/.bundle/config`.

Executing `bundle config --delete <name>` will delete the configuration in both
local and global sources. Not compatible with --global or --local flag.

Executing bundle with the `BUNDLE_IGNORE_CONFIG` environment variable set will
cause it to ignore all configuration.

## REMEMBERING OPTIONS

Flags passed to `bundle install` or the Bundler runtime,
such as `--deployment` or `--local`, are not remembered between commands.
If an option must be remembered, it must be set using `bundle config`
(e.g., `bundle config path foo`).

The options that can be configured are:

* `deployment`:
  In deployment mode, Bundler will 'roll-out' the bundle for
  `production` use. Please check carefully if you want to have this option
  enabled in `development` or `test` environments.

* `path`:
  The location to install the specified gems to. This defaults to Rubygems'
  setting. Bundler shares this location with Rubygems, `gem install ...` will
  have gem installed there, too. Therefore, gems installed without a
  `--path ...` setting will show up by calling `gem list`. Accodingly, gems
  installed to other locations will not get listed.

* `without`:
  A space-separated list of groups referencing gems to skip during installation.

* `with`:
  A space-separated list of optional groups to be installed.

## BUILD OPTIONS

You can use `bundle config` to give bundler the flags to pass to the gem
installer every time bundler tries to install a particular gem.

A very common example, the `mysql` gem, requires Snow Leopard users to
pass configuration flags to `gem install` to specify where to find the
`mysql_config` executable.

    gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

Since the specific location of that executable can change from machine
to machine, you can specify these flags on a per-machine basis.

    bundle config build.mysql --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

After running this command, every time bundler needs to install the
`mysql` gem, it will pass along the flags you specified.

## CONFIGURATION KEYS

Configuration keys in bundler have two forms: the canonical form and the
environment variable form.

For instance, passing the `--without` flag to [bundle install(1)][bundle-install]
prevents Bundler from installing certain groups specified in gems.rb(5). Bundler
persists this value in `app/.bundle/config` so that calls to `Bundler.setup`
do not try to find gems from `gems.rb` that you didn't install. Additionally,
subsequent calls to [bundle install(1)][bundle-install] remember this setting and skip those
groups.

The canonical form of this configuration is `"without"`. To convert the canonical
form to the environment variable form, capitalize it, and prepend `BUNDLE_`. The
environment variable form of `"without"` is `BUNDLE_WITHOUT`.

Any periods in the configuration keys must be replaced with two underscores when
setting it via environment variables. The configuration key `local.rack` becomes
the environment variable `BUNDLE_LOCAL__RACK`.

## LIST OF AVAILABLE KEYS

The following is a list of all configuration keys and their purpose. You can
learn more about their operation in [bundle install(1)][bundle-install].

* `path` (`BUNDLE_PATH`):
  The location on disk where all gems in your bundle will be located regardless
  of `$GEM_HOME` or `$GEM_PATH` values. Bundle gems not found in this location
  will be installed by `bundle install`. Defaults to `Gem.dir`. When --deployment is
  used, defaults to vendor/bundle.
* `path.system` (`BUNDLE_PATH__SYSTEM`):
  Boolean, tells Bundler to install gems to the system path. Defaults to `false`.
* `frozen` (`BUNDLE_FROZEN`):
  Disallow changes to `gems.rb`. Defaults to `true` when `--deployment`
  is used.
* `with` (`BUNDLE_WITH`):
  A `:`-separated list of groups whose gems bundler should install. If an
  optional group is given it is installed. If a group is given that is
  in the remembered list of groups given to `without`, it is removed
  from that list.
* `without` (`BUNDLE_WITHOUT`):
  A `:`-separated list of groups whose gems bundler should not install
* `bin` (`BUNDLE_BIN`):
  Install executables from gems in the bundle to the specified directory.
  Defaults to `false`.
* `gemfile` (`BUNDLE_GEMFILE`):
  The name of the file that bundler should use as `gems.rb`. This location
  of this file also sets the root of the project, which is used to resolve
  relative paths in `gems.rb`, among other things. By default, bundler
  will search up from the current working directory until it finds a
  `gems.rb`.
* `ssl_ca_cert` (`BUNDLE_SSL_CA_CERT`):
  Path to a designated CA certificate file or folder containing multiple
  certificates for trusted CAs in PEM format.
* `ssl_client_cert` (`BUNDLE_SSL_CLIENT_CERT`):
  Path to a designated file containing a X.509 client certificate
  and key in PEM format.
* `cache_path` (`BUNDLE_CACHE_PATH`): The directory that bundler will place
  cached gems in when running <code>bundle cache</code>, and that bundler
  will look in when installing gems.
* `disable_multisource` (`BUNDLE_DISABLE_MULTISOURCE`): When set, gems.rbs
  containing multiple sources will produce errors instead of warnings. Use
  `bundle config --delete disable_multisource` to unset.
* `ignore_messages` (`BUNDLE_IGNORE_MESSAGES`): When set, no post install
  messages will be printed. To silence a single gem, use dot notation like
  `ignore_messages.httparty true`.
* `retry` (`BUNDLE_RETRY`):
   The number of times to retry failed network requests. Defaults to `3`.
* `redirect` (`BUNDLE_REDIRECT`):
   The number of redirects allowed for network requests. Defaults to `5`.
* `timeout` (`BUNDLE_TIMEOUT`):
   The seconds allowed before timing out for network requests. Defaults to `10`.

In general, you should set these settings per-application by passing the
applicable flag to the `bundle config --local` command.

You can set them globally either via environment variables or `bundle config`,
whichever is preferable for your setup. If you use both, environment variables
will take preference over global settings.

## INSTALLING GROUPS

By default, Bundler will install all gems in all groups
in your gems.rb(5), except those declared for a different platform.

However, you can explicitly tell Bundler to skip installing
certain groups with the `without` option. This option takes
a space-separated list of groups.

While the `without` option will skip _installing_ the gems in the
specified groups, it will still _download_ those gems and use them to
resolve the dependencies of every gem in your gems.rb(5).

This is so that installing a different set of groups on another
 machine (such as a production server) will not change the
gems and versions that you have already developed and tested against.

`Bundler offers a rock-solid guarantee that the third-party
code you are running in development and testing is also the
third-party code you are running in production. You can choose
to exclude some of that code in different environments, but you
will never be caught flat-footed by different versions of
third-party code being used in different environments.`

For a simple illustration, consider the following gems.rb(5):

    source 'https://rubygems.org'

    gem 'sinatra'

    group :production do
      gem 'rack-perftools-profiler'
    end

In this case, `sinatra` depends on any version of Rack (`>= 1.0`), while
`rack-perftools-profiler` depends on 1.x (`~> 1.0`).

When you configure your bundle with `bundle config without production` and then
run `bundle install` in development, we look at the dependencies of
`rack-perftools-profiler` as well. That way, you do not spend all your time
developing against Rack 2.0, using new APIs unavailable in Rack 1.x, only to
have Bundler switch to Rack 1.2 when the `production` group _is_ used.

This should not cause any problems in practice, because we do not
attempt to `install` the gems in the excluded groups, and only evaluate
as part of the dependency resolution process.

This also means that you cannot include different versions of the same
gem in different groups, because doing so would result in different
sets of dependencies used in development and production. Because of
the vagaries of the dependency resolution process, this usually
affects more than the gems you explicitly list in your gems.rb(5),
and can (surprisingly) radically change the gems you are using.

## LOCAL GIT REPOS

Bundler also allows you to work against a git repository locally
instead of using the remote version. This can be achieved by setting
up a local override:

    bundle config local.GEM_NAME /path/to/local/git/repository

For example, in order to use a local Rack repository, a developer could call:

    bundle config local.rack ~/Work/git/rack

Now instead of checking out the remote git repository, the local
override will be used. Similar to a path source, every time the local
git repository change, changes will be automatically picked up by
Bundler. This means a commit in the local git repo will update the
revision in `gems.locked` to the local git repo revision. This
requires the same attention as git submodules. Before pushing to
the remote, you need to ensure the local override was pushed, otherwise
you may point to a commit that only exists in your local machine.

Bundler does many checks to ensure a developer won't work with
invalid references. Particularly, we force a developer to specify
a branch in `gems.rb` in order to use this feature. If the branch
specified in `gems.rb` and the current branch in the local git
repository do not match, Bundler will abort. This ensures that
a developer is always working against the correct branches, and prevents
accidental locking to a different branch.

Finally, Bundler also ensures that the current revision in
`gems.locked` exists in the local git repository. By doing this, Bundler
forces you to fetch the latest changes in the remotes.

## MIRRORS OF GEM SOURCES

Bundler supports overriding gem sources with mirrors. This allows you to
configure rubygems.org as the gem source in your gems.rb while still using your
mirror to fetch gems.

    bundle config mirror.SOURCE_URL MIRROR_URL

For example, to use a mirror of rubygems.org hosted at

    bundle config mirror.http://rubygems.org http://rubygems-mirror.org

## CREDENTIALS FOR GEM SOURCES

Bundler allows you to configure credentials for any gem source, which allows
you to avoid putting secrets into your gems.rb.

    bundle config SOURCE_HOSTNAME USERNAME:PASSWORD

For example, to save the credentials of user `claudette` for the gem source at
`gems.longerous.com`, you would run:

    bundle config gems.longerous.com claudette:s00pers3krit

Or you can set the credentials as an environment variable like this:

    export BUNDLE_GEMS__LONGEROUS__COM="claudette:s00pers3krit"
